The ancient Greeks made a list of places they thought people should see. This list was named the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. The Greeks chose seven wonders, because in their culture this number symbolized perfection. The only one of the ancient wonders that still exists is in Giza, Egypt. This wonder is the Great Pyramid of Giza. It was one of three great pyramids built around 2500 B.C. It is the oldest wonder of the seven. People do not know how these pyramids were built but we know that they took over 20 years to complete. For a long time, the Great Pyramid was believed to be the tallest structure in the world. Pyramids were built as tombs for the leaders of Egypt called Pharaohs. Many travelers still visit the Great Pyramid today.
The Hanging Gardens of Babylon are another ancient wonder. This wonder is special because people do not know for sure if it existed. Old books say the garden was built around 600 B.C. It was located on the bank of the Euphrates River. Today, this area is near Baghdad, Iraq. These gardens were built by a king for his wife. Living in the desert, she missed the plants at her old home. The king wanted to make his queen like their new home more. It may never be known if the Hanging Gardens of Babylon truly existed, but the descriptions of this beautiful place have made their place in history.
The Greeks also added a couple of their own structures on the list of ancient wonders. The Statue of Zeus was built in Olympia, Greece in 457 B.C. This statue was built to honor the Greek god Zeus. The statue was as tall as a four-story building! It was made of wood and decorated with gold and ivory. Unfortunately, the statue was destroyed by a fire and no longer exists for us to see.
In addition to Zeus, the Greeks also built a very big statue to honor the Greek sun god, Helios. This wonder is known as the Colossus of Rhodes. The Colossus of Rhodes took twelve years to build. It was finished in 226 B.C. It was 110 feet high. That is about the same size as the Statue of Liberty. Also like the Statue of Liberty, the Colossus of Rhodes was placed at the entrance to a harbor.
Built around 550 B.C., the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus was considered the most beautiful structure on earth. It was built to honor the goddess of hunting, nature, and fertility. Ephesus was an ancient city that was located in what is now Turkey. The temple was made of marble and had many bronze statues. People used to come from all over the world to worship Artemis. The temple was later burned down and now there is only a marshy field where this wonder once stood.
Another wonder was also located in what is now Turkey. It was the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus. This tomb was built for King Mausolus of Caria. Some of the best artists and craftsmen of the time period helped build and decorate this beautiful tomb. The mausoleum was finished around 350 B.C. Later, several earthquakes damaged the mausoleum. A group called the Knights of St. John later used the ruins to build a castle. King Mausolus’s name and his connection with such a special tomb led people to use the word mausoleum.
The only wonder built for a practical use was the Pharos of Alexandria. This was a lighthouse off the coast of Egypt. It was once the tallest building in the world. There was a very large mirror inside this lighthouse. It was used to reflect sunlight to help warn ships that they were getting close to the shoreline. At night, a fire was lit inside the Pharos of Alexandria to help sailors. The design and building of this lighthouse started in 290 B.C. It was later ruined by earthquakes. However, it remained longer than any of the wonders, other than the Great Pyramid.
The Seven Wonders of the Ancient World are unknown to many people because most of these structures were destroyed so long ago. While it is sad people cannot see most of these wonders in person, the detailed stories about them help people know how special they were.

Bobby was preparing to go to bed late one evening when he heard a shrill screech coming from the barn outside. Bobby was unsure what was making such an eerie noise so late in the night. He had trouble falling asleep and tossed and turned all night dreaming about the haunting sounds emanating from the barn. When Bobby awakened the following morning, he hurried out to the barn to discover what was causing such a peculiar noise the night prior. He gathered his courage and entered the barn but left befuddled when he could not find what was making such noise. That evening after dinner as the sun was setting, Bobby grabbed a flashlight and set out for the barn.
“Where are you heading?” Bobby’s father asked.
“I am going to go find the monster that was making such a commotion last night,” Bobby replied. “If you are going to look for a monster, you might need some assistance,” Bobby’s dad responded
as he walked with Bobby out to the barn.
Bobby shined his flashlight into the barn, but he did not see anything. Bobby called out but only
his echo returned. He walked into the barn but there was no monster.
“What did this monster sound like?” Bobby’s dad asked.
“It was a screeching noise,” Bobby said, “and it was coming from the barn. I know it!”
Bobby’s dad began to chuckle and he took the flashlight from Bobby. Shining the flashlight up at the roof of the barn, Bobby and his dad saw a small brown owl in the rafters of the roof.
“It was only a barn owl that you heard last night,” Bobby’s dad said. “They are nocturnal predators so that is why you only heard him at night. He must have been hunting for his dinner.”
Bobby was elated that it wasn’t a monster and thanked his dad as they walked back to the house. Just then they heard a loud screech and looked up to see the barn owl flying away into the night sky.

Fish and whales are both vertebrates, which means they both have backbones. They also live in aquatic environments. Except for a couple of species, whales live only in the ocean water. Fish, however, inhabit both fresh and salt water. Whales are among the largest animals on Earth, and some fish can be among the smallest.
Being mammals, whales are warm-blooded. This means they must maintain a constant and warm body temperature. Fish, on the other hand, are more like reptiles. Most are cold-blooded. This means their body temperature changes to match the surrounding water.
Whales have a thick layer of fat called blubber under their smooth, almost hairless skin. This fat helps them retain their body heat. Fish have very little fat, which is why many fish are prized as food. To keep from freezing in the cold water, fish blood contains an anti-freeze substance. Fish are also covered with a slimy material that helps protect their skin from salt or other chemicals in the water.
Though whales are mammals and fish are not, they are similar in some ways. Both have fins and a tail, which helps them swim and stay upright in the water. But these similarities are in appearance only. Whales move their body through the water with the help of their horizontal tail, which flaps up and down to propel them through the water. Fish, on the other hand, have vertical tails, which move from side to side. Even though whales are huge creatures, they can reach astounding speeds when swimming. Killer whales can swim up to 37 miles per hour; some dolphins move at speeds of 18 miles per hour, while the large Fin Whale cruises along at 13 to 16 miles per hour. Right Whales and Gray Whales are somewhat slower, with a top speed of about 6 miles per hour. How fast fish swim depends on the size and shape of the fish. Herring, a small fish, swims at only 3 miles per hour. Swordfish are the speedsters. They have been clocked at 60 miles per hour. Both whales and fish will swim at high speeds if they are chasing or escaping an enemy. It requires too much energy to swim fast all the time.
Whales can dive deeply and stay underwater a long time. The Sperm Whale, for instance, can dive to more than 6,500 feet, depths that would crush a submarine. It can also remain under water for up to 90 minutes! Like land mammals, whales have lungs and must come to the surface to breathe through their blowhole, which is located on the top of the whale’s head. Fish, on the other hand, breathe by removing oxygen from the water through special
organs called gills. A fish will quickly suffocate when removed from the water.

Mount Rushmore is a national monument located in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Carved into the side of the large mountain are the faces of four men who were United States presidents. These men were chosen because all four played important roles in American history. The four faces carved onto Mount Rushmore are those of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. Each face carved into the mountain is about 60 feet tall.
George Washington was chosen for this monument because of his role in the Revolutionary War and his fight for American independence. He was the first United States president and is often called the father of our country. Thomas Jefferson was picked because he believed that people should be allowed to govern themselves, which is the basis for democracy. Abraham Lincoln was added because he believed that all people are equal, and he helped end slavery in the United States. Theodore Roosevelt was chosen because he was such an influential president and world leader.
The man who carved Mount Rushmore was named Gutzon Borglum, and he worked on the monument until his death in 1941. After Gutzon Borglum died, his son Lincoln Borglum worked on the mountain until there was no money left to continue. Fourteen years were spent creating the faces on Mount Rushmore. Dynamite was used to blast the tough granite rock off the mountain to make a smooth surface for the faces. George Washington was carved first, and his face began as an egg-shaped piece of granite. Thomas Jefferson was added to the right of George Washington, but his face cracked and had to be blasted off the mountain. Jefferson was then re-carved to the left of George Washington. Lincoln and then Roosevelt were added to the mountain. Snow and a dearth of money slowed down the work, and all work on the monument ended when there was no money left to continue.
