There are almost 400 different kinds of sharks. Each kind of shark looks different, has a unique diet, and behaves differently. There are sharks in the four oceans of the world. Some sharks are longer than a school bus, while others are so small they can live in fish tanks. Sharks come in all kinds of colors. Most of the time, their skin color helps them blend in with their surroundings. But, some sharks that live in the deepest part of the ocean actually have parts that glow in the dark. Most sharks live in salt water, but some can live in fresh water.
Sharks are actually a type of fish. There are some similarities as well as differences between sharks and typical fish. Shark skeletons are made of cartilage. Fish skeletons are made of bones. Cartilage is the bendy, tough substance in people’s ears and noses. Like other fish, sharks have gills that help them breathe. Unlike fish, people use lungs to get oxygen from the air. Fish get oxygen from the water using their gills. Water needs to move over the gills so the sharks can get enough oxygen. To keep the water moving, most sharks need to be swimming in water that has a very strong current.
Sharks have a lot of teeth. Sharks have many rows of teeth, rather than just one row like people. The teeth from the outside row gradually fall out. Then teeth from the next row take their place. Some sharks will lose 30,000 teeth in a lifetime! Each species of shark has different kinds of teeth and they eat various kinds of food. Some sharks eat food as small as plankton. Other sharks eat animals as big as sea turtles. Most sharks do not eat very often. Some sharks will go weeks between meals. Sharks are at the top of the ocean food chain. This position is very important. It keeps all of the other animal populations from growing out of control. This process helps ensure there is a diversity of life in the oceans.

When I was a child, one of my favorite authors was Marguerite Henry. She wrote about wild ponies that live on the Island of Chincoteague. Chincoteague is an island off the coast of Virginia and Maryland. For hundreds of years, wild ponies have lived on Chincoteague’s neighboring island, Assateague. The ponies, like the ones in Henry’s book, get to Chincoteague each year by swimming across the channel between the two islands. Locals round up some of the wild ponies from Assateague and swim the ponies across the channel between the two islands. Once the ponies get to Chincoteague, they are auctioned. The ponies adapt well to domestic life, and the culling, or removal, of some of the horses helps keep the wild pony herds healthy. Because I read so many of Henry’s books about these two islands, I developed a mental picture of how they would look. All of the beautiful descriptions found in these books helped me create pictures in my mind, and I could just imagine the ponies prancing along the beach and swimming across the channel. I desperately wanted to go there to see the wild ponies.
After much pleading, my parents agreed to take my family on a vacation to visit these islands. We drove through the middle of the night so we could spend the whole next day touring the islands. We arrived before the sun rose. Because it was so dark, no one in my family realized we had parked next to a paddock that held a herd of horses. Just as the sun started to come up over the horizon, we heard the whinnying of ponies and the pounding of hooves. We awoke to ponies galloping across the field. It was just like I had imagined. There was so much I wanted to learn about the islands while I was there, but I really wanted to learn about the ponies. I had an idea of what they were like from the books I had read, but it was exciting to see them with my own eyes and learn everything I could about them.
While my family vacationed in Chincoteague, I learned many things about the wild ponies. The Chincoteague ponies come in all shapes, sizes and colors. Because of their diet, these ponies have very round bellies. When the ponies are in the wild, on Assateague, they live a difficult life. They forage for food in the salty marshlands eating marsh grasses, seaweed and even poison ivy. Because their diet is so high in salt, they must drink twice as much water as typical ponies. Though they live on an island, they cannot drink the salty ocean water; therefore, they must find fresh water inland to drink. Although these wild ponies have difficult lives, they have survived many hundreds of years in the wild.
The ponies are a significant part of the history of the islands of Chincoteague and Assateague. I was so glad I was able to see them in person. The books of Marguerite Henry introduced me to a place I had never before been able to visit. Through these stories, I learned about the beautiful ponies living in the wild and the process they go through when they are domesticated. Without reading Henry’s books, I may have never known of the wonders of these islands, and I may never have been so determined to visit. You too can begin learning about these beautiful, wild horses by reading one of Marguerite Henry’s most famous books, Misty of Chincoteague.

I froze in place as a cloud of honeybees buzzed around my head and arms. My only hope was that the big fancy net I was wearing would keep the bees out. You see, my friend Frank is a beekeeper. He not only keeps bees but he loves them, too. I joined him on this warm spring day to see how a beekeeper starts a new hive.
Frank needed some more hives, so he called a nearby bee ranch to order two boxes of bees. A few days later, the buzzing, pulsating boxes arrived at the post office. Each box was filled with more than ten thousand bees. A postal worker called Frank and asked him to please hurry and pick them up!
Honeybees had always seemed scary to me. But as I watched Frank work, I learned something. I learned that if you know how to handle bees the right way, beekeeping can be a great hobby.
Frank and I each wore a helmet and a net to protect us from bee stings. We used string to tie our pants around our ankles to keep any lost honeybees from crawling up our legs.
For hives, beekeepers use boxes with narrow wooden frames hanging inside. On each frame is a sheet of thin wax. The honeybees produce more wax from their bodies to make six-sided boxes, called cells, on these sheets. The queen bee lays eggs in some of the cells, and the bees store honey and pollen in others. Each cell is just big enough for a honeybee to squeeze inside.
Frank sprayed sugar water on the mass of bees in the center of the mailing box. For a few minutes, this makes their wings too sticky to fly. Then he reached in for the tiny box containing the queen bee.
“Aha,” whispered Frank, “and here she is.” His voice was quiet but excited. He slipped the queen’s box into his pocket to keep her safe. The queen is important to the hive, and the other honeybees will attack to protect her.
Moving quietly, he dumped the rest of the honeybees from the mailing box into the hive. After spraying the queen with sugar water, he took her out of the special box and placed her in her new home. He covered the top of the hive with a lid. Then he smiled at me and said, “Not one sting. They must really like you!”
Next, Frank opened a little door at the bottom of the hive. This would let the honeybees fly in and out to gather nectar and pollen for the hive. Honeybees use nectar to make honey. They use honey and pollen as food. Soon the queen would start laying eggs, and the hive would grow. Frank’s work for the day was done. Later in the summer, I saw Frank again. He proudly presented me with a big jar of sweet, tasty honey made by my friends the honeybees.

The Delgado family had a new puppy named Lady. She was a playful puppy. She especially liked playing with the garden hose. She loved to watch the hose wiggle like a snake when she chewed on it. One day Mr. Delgado saw Lady drag the garden hose across the yard. “Not again!” he said as he hung the hose on the hook that was on the side of the house.
It was the fifth time this week that Lady had taken the hose down from its hook. Mr. Delgado had tried to teach her not to do it. He pointed to the hose each time and said with a stern voice, “No, Lady! Don’t play with the hose!” It hadn’t helped.
The next day Mr. Delgado went outside to water his vegetable garden. Once again he found the hose stretched across the yard. Lady playfully picked it up in her teeth when she saw him.
Manuel came outside. “Hi, Dad,” he said. “May I help water the garden?” Manuel picked up the hose, and Mr. Delgado turned on the water. Only a few drops of water fell on the plants. They saw water springing up from tiny holes all along the hose.
Manuel looked at Lady. “Your sharp teeth made those holes, Lady. You turned our hose into a fountain,” he said. Lady wagged her tail proudly. Manuel and his father took the hose to the garage. They used rubber glue to mend it. “I don’t know how to teach Lady to leave the hose alone,” said Mr. Delgado once they had repaired the hose. “Do you have any ideas?”
“I know what we can do,” said Manuel. He wrapped the hose around the hook again. Then he brought two chairs from the yard. He turned them on their sides and leaned them against the house. The chairs formed a cage around the hose.
Lady walked over to the hose. She stuck her paw between the chairs. She poked the chairs with her nose and cried. She tried and tried, but she couldn’t reach the hose. Manuel’s idea was working. “You’re probably unhappy about this,” Manuel said to his puppy, “but Dad and I don’t want to fix that hose every day!”
