From far out in space, Earth looks like a blue ball. Since water covers three-fourths of the Earth’s surface, blue is the color we see most. The continents look brown, like small islands floating in the huge, blue sea. White clouds wrap around the Earth like a light blanket. The Earth is shaped like a sphere, or a ball. It is 25,000 miles around! It would take more than a year to stroll around the whole planet. A spaceship can fly around the widest part of the sphere in only 90 minutes.
Even though spaceships have traveled to the Moon, people cannot visit the Moon without special suits. The Moon has no air or water. Plants and animals can’t live there either. Astronauts first landed on the Moon in 1969. After that, there were six more trips to the Moon. They brought back Moon rocks, which scientists are still studying. There are holes, or craters, all over the Moon’s surface. Scientists believe that meteorites smashed into the Moon millions of years ago and formed the craters.
The Sun is the closest star to Earth. A star is a hot ball of burning gas. The Sun looks very big because it is so close. But the Sun is just a medium-sized star. Billions of far-away stars are much bigger than our Sun. The burning gases from the Sun are so hot that they warm the Earth from 93 million miles away! Even though the Sun is always glowing, the night here on Earth is dark. That’s because the Earth rotates, or turns around, every 24 hours. During the day, the Earth faces the Sun. Then we see light. During the night, the Earth turns away from the Sun. Then it faces the darkness of space.

Across the South, many people are familiar with a dish called Hoppin’ John, a mix of rice, black- eyed peas and ham hocks or bacon. Though eaten throughout the year, this meal is usually served on New Year’s Day because many southerners believe that eating black-eyed peas on the first day of the year will bring good luck. Cabbage is also often served with Hoppin’ John because some people believe that those who eat cabbage on the first day of the year will earn more money than those who don’t.
Nobody knows the true origin, or beginning, of the name Hoppin’ John, but some believe it may have originated in Louisiana from the French Creole name for pigeon peas, a pea similar to a black-eyed pea. The French Creole term for pigeon peas is “pois a pigeon,” which is pronounced “pwah peeJon.” This may have sounded like “Hoppin’ John” to English speaking Southerners. The dish has been called Hoppin’ John ever since the early 1800s.

Everyone has several different types of teeth. Each type has a unique name and a different purpose. The teeth in the front of your mouth, and the easiest to see, are called incisors. There are four incisors on the top and four on the bottom. Incisors are shaped like tiny chisels with flat ends that are sharp. These teeth are used for cutting and chopping food. They are the first teeth to chew most food we eat. The pointed teeth on either side of your incisors are called canine teeth. People have a total of four canine teeth, two on top and two on the bottom. Because they are pointed and sharp, they are used to tear food.
Next to your canine teeth are the premolars. You have eight premolars in all, four on top and four on the bottom. They have a completely different shape than both the incisors and canines. That is because premolars are bigger, stronger, and have ridges – all of which makes them perfect for crushing and grinding food. Finally, there are your molars. You have eight of these, four on the top and four on the bottom. Molars are the toughest of the teeth. They are wider and stronger than premolars, and they have more ridges. Molars work closely with your tongue to help you swallow food. The tongue sweeps chewed food to the back of your mouth, where the molars grind it until it is mashed up and ready to be swallowed.
By age twenty, four more molars grow in the back of the mouth, one in each corner. These are called the wisdom teeth. People do not need wisdom teeth now, but many years ago these teeth were necessary to help people chew tough plants, which were an important part of the human diet. Now, many people get their wisdom teeth pulled by a dentist, a doctor who takes care of teeth, to keep them from crowding their other teeth.
The next time you eat, pay attention to which teeth do which jobs. Having a cookie? Incisors do a good job of biting into that tasty treat. What about a carrot? Those molars get the job done, not the teeth in front. How about a slice of pizza or a piece of bread? Your canines will help you tear at the food, and your premolars and molars will help you grind up that pepperoni pizza or peanut butter and jelly sandwich.

The clouds hung low in the gray sky. The chirping of the bluebirds woke me from my restful sleep. As I slowly woke, I got a funny feeling in my stomach. Today was the day. Today, I had to do something I have been afraid to do for a long time. Breakfast was normal and I began to relax.
Mom came into the kitchen asking, “Are you ready, Sam?”
“Yes,” I answered quietly. I wasn’t really!
The school bus came on time, and I sat with my friend, Billy. We chatted about baseball and trading cards. It was a great way to get my mind off of what I had to do today. As we approached the school, I could feel my heart beating. My hands were starting to sweat. I hated this!
I entered Mrs. Owens’ class. She was smiling, and saying hello to all her students as she did every morning.
“Hi Sam,” she said as I walked in.
“Hi,” I said and quickly sat in my seat. We said the pledge, and then took our spelling test. I looked at the clock. The time was near. I hope I am not first! Mrs. Owens said it was time to begin our special day. Special day? That’s a joke.
Mrs. Owens announced, “Sam, you’ll be first.”
I got up slowly, looking at the ground as I walked to the front of the room. I looked up, and everyone was staring at me. Mrs. Owens must have known I was nervous because she came by me, and put her hand on my back.
She said to the class, “Sam has worked very hard on his report, and I know it is very interesting.” Then she turned to me and asked, “Sam, what did you like best about your report on Hawaii?”
I nervously addressed my class saying “aloha.” Then, I thought about the fun things I had read about surfing, volcanoes, and pineapples, and I started to talk. Before I knew it, I was telling the class about everything I had learned. I talked in front of the whole class, and it was fun. It wasn’t scary after all. The class clapped as I finished and Mrs. Owens was smiling. I was proud of myself.
